For this project I wanted to see if you could predict the outcome of a match of league of legends using just information gathered during the first stage of the game (a.k.a Champion Select). This data includes what champions are picked and what side of the map each team is on (red side vs. blue side). I used the Riot Games API very heavily and made over 10,000 requests to their servers over the course of 10 hours. I didn't really use any other techniques to process them other than counting the times a champion was picked and the times it won. The most of this project was working with the Riot API to get the data I needed and then parsing and formatting that data so it was helpful.

The largest part of this project was gathering data to analyze. I was very limited in the number of requests I could make through the Riot API and the making requests was often pretty confusing in terms of what you needed to include in the request. I used a lot of dictionaries for this project as all the data I was given was in the form of json files. This translated very nicely to dictionaries with the json library. I also used lists occasionally to store less amounts of data. This was mainly so I could use the integer indexes and I could iterate directly through them with a for loop.

In order to get win rates for each individual champion, I had to request a bunch of matches from Riot. I first requested all the players in the divisions Diamond I, Master, Grandmaster, and Challenger. These players are the top of the top when it comes to playing league and combined make up less than 0.5% of the League of Legends player base. Once I had the names, I could look up their match history. I went through and grabbed the last 4 matches each player had played (due to time constraints I could only grab 9,197 matches total). I then went through each match and recorded if a champion had been picked for that match, if they won, and what color team they were on. I then calculated the percentage of time each champion won.

One decision I had to make was, when asking for user input, asking for a champion id number as opposed to their name. The champions in League have some very weird names (e.g. Vel'Koz, Rek'Sai, Kha'Zix) and I felt my program would be less prone to user error if all the had to do was input the id number instead of having to worry about getting the spelling of each champion exactly correct. This also integrated better with the rest of my program.

The results I got were that I can predict a match with slightly above 50% accuracy (50.55%) which is not really any better than just random guessing. This does make sense as my predictions left A LOT of relevant information out. My prediction didn't take anything like player skill into account. It also ignored champion synergies, player synergies, counter picks, or anything other than the original champion picks and team color/side. One of the interesting things I found was that the blue team pretty consistently had a slight advantage in terms of win rate. It was never big (0.4% advantage) but it was there. Another interesting thing I found was that champions I see regularly in pro play often had surprisingly low win rates in ranked play.

I found quite a bit of alignment with what tools I used and what I wanted to do. Again, I didn't really use many tools for my textual analysis but the bit I did use aligned very well. I imagined that the results I would get fro this would essentially be a list of percentages that I could grab and compare at will. This is exactly what I ended up with.

I feel like the data I have answered the question I set out to solve almost perfectly. The only major limitation I had was the very limited amounts of requests I was able to make per two minutes. I was not able to get nearly the amount of data I wanted. The final matches that I search are largely all from the diamond I rank. I did grab some matched from Challenger but I was very limited in how many matches I could grab as getting the 7997 matches from Diamond I took just under 8 hours to collect. Because of this, due to the skill level discrepancy even between Diamond I and Challenger, the results might not be a totally accurate prediction for matches that don't happen within the Diamond I rank.

When it comes to the win rates, I am very confidant with the accuracy of my results within Diamond I but I am nowhere near as confidant that those win rates are consistent outside of Diamond I.

I am pretty happy with the amount of data I pulled. I do really wish I had the chance to pull more data than what I have but given the limits on my requests, I am happy with what I ended up with. I think I could improve the readability of my code a bit further. I would want to add more comments and more robust docstrings. While I didn't use doctests for my unit testing, I did unit test everything as I went and made sure that each function worked as intended. If I could do this over, I would try to focus more on collecting a lot more matches from the Master, Grandmaster, and Challenger ranks. I don't feel I have enough data from these ranks but doing this would take a lot of time.
